This Codebook describes the function, variable and data transformation performed by the script run_analysis.R.

The Original Dataset and Experiments
------------------------------------
------------------------------------
The data set can be downloaded from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip.

The original experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Please refer to the README.txt file in the UCI HAR Dataset folder for more information.

Using the smartphone's embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, a 3-axial (X,Y,Z) linear acceleration and 3-axial(X,Y,Z) angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz.

Output of run_analysis.R
------------------------
------------------------
The script combines the test and train datasets into one data set, replaces the activity codes with the corresponding activity labels (refer to activitylabels.txt of the original experiment) and generates a table of 180 observations, one for each subject and activity combination, i.e. Subject1,WALKING...Subject30,LAYING.

The data set comprises 180 observations across 69 variables including Subject_Id and Activity. The means and standard deviations were extracted from the original data set in preparation for analysis. The data was grouped by Subject and Activity and a mean was calculated. The table below shows the relationship between the variables/columns of run_analysis.R and the original data set.

The table below contains three columns
Variable: Variable/Column as generated by run_analysis.R
Derivation: The corresponding Variable/Column from the original dataset
Description: Suggested reading for further explanation of the measurement  

Variable,Derivation,Description
--------------------------------
--------------------------------
Subject_Id,-,ID of participant
Activity                 ,-,"Activity description, refer to activitylabels.txt"
tBodyAcc_mean_X          ,tBodyAcc-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAcc_mean_Y           ,tBodyAcc-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAcc_mean_Z           ,tBodyAcc-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAcc_std_X           ,tBodyAcc-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAcc_std_Y            ,tBodyAcc-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAcc_std_Z            ,tBodyAcc-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAcc_mean_X       ,tGravityAcc-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAcc_mean_Y        ,tGravityAcc-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAcc_mean_Z        ,tGravityAcc-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAcc_std_X        ,tGravityAcc-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAcc_std_Y         ,tGravityAcc-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAcc_std_Z         ,tGravityAcc-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerk_mean_X      ,tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerk_mean_Y       ,tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerk_mean_Z       ,tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerk_std_X       ,tBodyAccJerk-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerk_std_Y        ,tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerk_std_Z        ,tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyro_mean_X        ,tBodyGyro-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyro_mean_Y          ,tBodyGyro-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyro_mean_Z          ,tBodyGyro-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyro_std_X          ,tBodyGyro-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyro_std_Y           ,tBodyGyro-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyro_std_Z           ,tBodyGyro-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerk_mean_X     ,tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Y      ,tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Z      ,tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerk_std_X      ,tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerk_std_Y       ,tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerk_std_Z       ,tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccMag_mean       ,tBodyAccMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccMag_std           ,tBodyAccMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAccMag_mean       ,tGravityAccMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tGravityAccMag_std       ,tGravityAccMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerkMag_mean      ,tBodyAccJerkMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyAccJerkMag_std       ,tBodyAccJerkMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroMag_mean       ,tBodyGyroMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroMag_std          ,tBodyGyroMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerkMag_mean     ,tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
tBodyGyroJerkMag_std     ,tBodyGyroJerkMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAcc_mean_X           ,fBodyAcc-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAcc_mean_Y           ,fBodyAcc-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAcc_mean_Z          ,fBodyAcc-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAcc_std_X            ,fBodyAcc-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAcc_std_Y            ,fBodyAcc-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAcc_std_Z           ,fBodyAcc-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccJerk_mean_X       ,fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccJerk_mean_Y       ,fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccJerk_mean_Z      ,fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccJerk_std_X        ,fBodyAccJerk-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccJerk_std_Y        ,fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccJerk_std_Z       ,fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyGyro_mean_X         ,fBodyGyro-mean()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyGyro_mean_Y          ,fBodyGyro-mean()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyGyro_mean_Z         ,fBodyGyro-mean()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyGyro_std_X           ,fBodyGyro-std()-X,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyGyro_std_Y           ,fBodyGyro-std()-Y,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyGyro_std_Z          ,fBodyGyro-std()-Z,Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccMag_mean          ,fBodyAccMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyAccMag_std           ,fBodyAccMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_mean ,fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_std   ,fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyBodyGyroMag_mean    ,fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyBodyGyroMag_std     ,fBodyBodyGyroMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_mean ,fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_std,fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std(),Refer to features_info.txt of original data set
  
